%%%
layout: post
title: TKS (Part 2)
date: 2006-08-25 03:31
comments: true
tags: Personal
%%%

I posted a link to Taijin Kyofusho Syndrome last time.

Apparently this is a "mental condition" that Yumi, my girlfriend, suffers from.

This is a bit of an involved story, and it begins a few days back. She and I got into a bit of a fight because I
didn't underestand that her state was more a condition than simply a preference.

She is extremely shy around people and there is nothing she can seemingly do about it. She loves to sing, but not
around anybody. She likes to hang out, she likes to talk, but she cannot get herself to initiate anything. She will
receive a phone call and talk for hours on end, but she cannot get herself to pick up the phone and start a call.

First I thought it was just a confidence thing. Or a matter of preference. But she knows, logically, that she should
be more outgoing. But apparently it's just something -- more of a trauma or something -- that she can't control.

At first, she felt like I was pressuring her into a corner with no escape -- and she felt awful. She broke down in
front of me, at which time I noticed I'd gone too far. It took an additional day for us to calm down and think
about the situation.

Eventually, the two of us spoke again, and after a long talk, I came to realize that possibly this was a mental
condition. I started doing some research on this, and then I showed her what I'd found. She agreed that the
description fits her symptoms almost exactly, and that she likely has this condition. The two of us finally
felt better, that we know what's going on. I've decided to do some more research on this, and possibly find
ways she can work on the condition.